# Compare data frames columns before merging

Generate a comparison of data.frames (or similar objects) that indicates
if they will successfully bind together by rows.

## Usage

``` r
compare_df_cols(
  ...,
  return = c("all", "match", "mismatch"),
  bind_method = c("bind_rows", "rbind"),
  strict_description = FALSE
)
```

## Arguments

- ...:

  A combination of data.frames, tibbles, and lists of
  data.frames/tibbles. The values may optionally be named arguments; if
  named, the output column will be the name; if not named, the output
  column will be the data.frame name (see examples section).

- return:

  Should a summary of "all" columns be returned, only return "match"ing
  columns, or only "mismatch"ing columns?

- bind_method:

  What method of binding should be used to determine matches? With
  "bind_rows", columns missing from a data.frame would be considered a
  match (as in
  [`dplyr::bind_rows()`](https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/bind_rows.html);
  with "rbind", columns missing from a data.frame would be considered a
  mismatch (as in [`base::rbind()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/cbind.html).

- strict_description:

  Passed to `describe_class`. Also, see the Details section.

## Value

A data.frame with a column named "column_name" with a value named after
the input data.frames' column names, and then one column per data.frame
(named after the input data.frame). If more than one input has the same
column name, the column naming will have suffixes defined by sequential
use of [`base::merge()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/merge.html) and may
differ from expected naming. The rows within the data.frame-named
columns are descriptions of the classes of the data within the columns
(generated by `describe_class`).

## Details

Due to the returned "column_name" column, no input data.frame may be
named "column_name".

The `strict_description` argument is most typically used to understand
if factor levels match or are bindable. Factors are typically bindable,
but the behavior of what happens when they bind differs based on the
binding method ("bind_rows" or "rbind"). Even when `strict_description`
is `FALSE`, data.frames may still bind because some classes (like
factors and characters) can bind even if they appear to differ.

## See also

Other data frame type comparison:
[`compare_df_cols_same()`](https://sfirke.github.io/janitor/reference/compare_df_cols_same.md),
[`describe_class()`](https://sfirke.github.io/janitor/reference/describe_class.md)

## Examples

``` r
compare_df_cols(data.frame(A = 1), data.frame(B = 2))
#>   column_name data.frame(A = 1) data.frame(B = 2)
#> 1           A           numeric              <NA>
#> 2           B              <NA>           numeric
# user-defined names
compare_df_cols(dfA = data.frame(A = 1), dfB = data.frame(B = 2))
#>   column_name     dfA     dfB
#> 1           A numeric    <NA>
#> 2           B    <NA> numeric
# a combination of list and data.frame input
compare_df_cols(listA = list(dfA = data.frame(A = 1), dfB = data.frame(B = 2)), data.frame(A = 3))
#>   column_name     dfA     dfB data.frame(A = 3)
#> 1           A numeric    <NA>           numeric
#> 2           B    <NA> numeric              <NA>
```
